Loading the rocket:

To the left are possible crew members you can add to your colony. In order to add crew to your ship you first have to add a cabin, 
which can be done by pressing the large button at the top of the crew box. Hover over crew members to see their information (currently just
their skills)

To the right are all possible resources. Adding food, water,and oxygen is obviously mandatory.
The following is a list of construction requirements for basic buildings that you likely will want to build early in your colony’s life:

Greenhouse: 300 plastic panels, 3000 struct. plastic, 1000 plastic parts
Laboratory: 300 plastic panels, 3000 struct. plastic
Basic Hab: 200 plastic panels 2000 structural plastic
Mine: 200 plastic panels, 2000 struct. plastic, 100 metal panels, 250 metal parts
Drill Derrick (to drill for water): 10 metal parts, 1000 structural metal
Solar Plant: 1000 solar panels, 500 wire, 5000 structural
metal, 500 metal parts

A suggested starting loadout: 
100k Food
250k Water
500 Oxygen
1500 Metal Parts
500 Metal Panels
11k Structural Metal
2000 Solar Cells
500 Power Cable
2500 Plastic Parts
6 Delivery Trucks
1 Rover
60 Colonists
Fill with Plastic Panels and Structural Plastic at a 1:10 ratio (10 structural plastic per 1 plastic panel).

Trucks are required for moving resources between buildings and your colony will fail without a few (5-6 recommended). 
Survey rovers are required in order to tell what the ground in a given location contains and will increase the efficiency of your mining operations.

Gameplay:

Choosing buildings is done through the bottom menu. After choosing what building to build and placing 
it on the map you must supply the construction site with the required materials. This can be done by sending 
the materials from a building that has the requirements, or by clicking the resource button on the under-construction 
building, setting the quantity, and selecting the building to take the resources from.  Buildings can be upgraded (house with green plus icon)
to add additional functionality.  Currently all avaliable upgrades are of the "type" category.

In order to survive the two biggest priorities are securing your food and water supplies. 
Food must be grown in greenhouses, takes an initial investment of food+water, and requires a significant 
growing time, so planning ahead for your food supply is critical. Water can be obtained one of two ways: 
by drilling for and extracting water from micro-ice in the martian soil, or by mining surface ice and melting it into water. 
Either way will require you to research the Martian water purification tech to make the water usable by your citizens. 

Technologies can be researched from the laboratory building. Choose an empty slot in a laboratory 
to add a research team that can then be assigned to research any available technology.

Buildings also require power in order to carry out many of their functions. Solar power 
is the easiest and most accessible early in the game and getting a solar plant built should be an early priority.
Later (research Martian Uranium Enrichment) you will gain access to nuclear power that provides greater output with a higher upfront cost.

Additional resources, products, and materials can also be sent in from Earth in limited launch windows. 
This is also the only way to add additional colonists to your colony. Press the launch button to access the loading 
interface and choose the contents of your next rocket. There is a counter in the bottom right showing the 
years, months, and days until the next launch, or, if there has recently been a launch, the time until the next wave of rockets from earth arrive.
The number of new colonists avaliable to you is based on unoccupied housing units in your colony, build excess housing to attract more potential colonists.

Goals: Currently you can win the game by raising the atmospheric oxygen level of Mars to something more earth-like.  This can be done using a Terraplant (research Terraform Theory)
and consumes huge amounts of oxygen.  Oxygen can be generated at the volumes required using biofactories (research Bioindustry).  More victory conditions coming soon!